The willing spirit of Jehovah’s people
has always made feelings of appreciation
well up in our heavenly Father’s heart.
For example, consider the attitude
displayed by the nation of Israel
in supporting the construction
of the tabernacle
in 1512 B.C.E.
As impressive as that structure was,
The Watchtower  of December 15, 2014, stated:
“What brought Jehovah the most pleasure
“was, not the material offerings,
but the willing spirit
of those who thus supported pure worship.”
Exodus 36:2 describes how Bezalel, Oholiab,
and other skilled men
took the lead in constructing the tabernacle.
But many others volunteered.
We are told
that “everyone whose heart impelled him”
had a share.
All these people were
a special source of joy to Jehovah.
Today, it is impressive to see
what Jehovah’s organization
is accomplishing in all the earth.
And those who volunteer
to do the work at Bethel
and in construction assignments
continue to make Jehovah’s heart rejoice.
The Personnel Committee
has prepared the following report
to highlight some of the precious people
who work behind the scenes
—our hardworking brothers and sisters
in construction.
What is their work, lifestyle,
and daily routine?
How can getting involved in this work
as a young person
lead to rewarding opportunities
in the future?
And how can all of us support
these self-sacrificing servants of Jehovah?
We invite you to watch and listen
as some of our dear construction workers
tell their stories.
There’s something special about construction.
Sometimes you travel
to the middle of nowhere,
and we’ve met construction groups,
and there’s just a vibe,
there’s just a “we’re family,”
and you’re going to have a good time.
So we kind of grew up around construction,
which was a huge privilege.
Our parents were both involved
in construction
on one particular Assembly Hall.
Yeah, we just heard
from a few different characters,
and they just seemed to be having
so much fun,
and the thought of having fun
and to be in full-time service for Jehovah
was very, very appealing.
What I like the most about my assignment
is knowing that I can be
a useful tool in Jehovah’s hands
and that wherever he sees a need, I can help.
My mom’s example later helped me to decide
to enter full-time service.
And when it came to doing more for Jehovah,
she taught us to make Jehovah’s service
our way of life.
We really do have a lot of fun on the team,
and it’s a real mix of characters
—ages, experience.
And that’s really important
because we’re doing a serious work at times.
But Jehovah is a happy God,
and he wants us to enjoy our assignments.
I remember one particular convention
where I heard a talk about goals.
It kind of made me just take a pause
and think about what my goals were.
What do I really want to do
in my service to Jehovah?
Have I yet done anything
that’s really shown him
that I’m putting my life
squarely in his hands?
And I think that was that moment in that talk
that I thought,
‘It is time for an adventure with Jehovah.’
The routine of a construction servant
starts at Bethel with morning worship.
We love morning worship.
It’s almost like a mini convention.
You just get that little something
to keep you going through the day.
And then we’ve got a full day from 8 till 5
and enjoy lunch here on site
with the rest of the construction family
and some of the Bethel family.
What’s really important
for all of us on the project
is to maintain our own spirituality.
We have an environment
where you can do good, quiet study.
In our assignments, it’s definitely been
that when we focused on the ministry
on the weekends,
what happens in the week was always better.
Something else I enjoy
about being here in my routine
is spending time with my friends.
We don’t just work,
but Jehovah lets us have fun.
So I have no construction background at all.
So everything that I’ve been able to enjoy
with the project
has been because brothers
have shown some confidence
and given me the opportunity to learn.
There’s a huge variety of roles
within a construction project of this size.
Obviously, there are needs
for the real skills of trades
that are needed
to actually build the buildings,
but there’s a vast support network
that can often be office-based.
We’re from quite simple backgrounds.
We had simple jobs.
And what Jehovah
has managed to achieve with us
always amazes us, really,
because we now do jobs
that we never would have imagined
that we could have done.
So every assignment that we’ve had
I think we’ve felt quite overwhelmed, . . .
Overwhelmed.
. . . inexperienced.
I think sometimes when you’re completely
out of your comfort zone
is when Jehovah can give you
what you most need.
So the end outcome is always
an enormous blessing.
And so the blessings always outweigh
the challenges.
Something else that’s really helped us
through challenges
is the brothers and sisters
we’ve worked with.
They’re always there for us,
always with a comforting word,
a hug, an arm around the shoulder,
and often that’s really helped us
get through challenging situations as well.
I think the greatest challenge I’ve faced,
and continue to face,
is a fear of the unknown.
The fear of filling out an application
and sending it,
of an assignment that I don’t know
how to carry out or if I’m capable of,
and of going somewhere else
and not knowing how to get there.
Despite the challenges I have faced
in Jehovah’s service,
I have always received help.
And on one occasion,
when I was traveling to my new assignment,
I had logistical issues
that arose because of the pandemic.
In my case, the branch was always there
to support me in everything
with all the decisions I had to make
and the documents I had to get for the trip.
One of the Bible accounts that’s always meant
a lot to me is David and Jonathan
and the fact that they really didn’t know
each other that long
but had such an incredible friendship
and bond.
And I really feel the congregation
has been that for me out here.
And ones that you meet,
just within a very short period of time,
you think:
‘They’re going to be like family. They’re—
I’m going to know them forever.’
On a project, you could be far away
from those that really do know
all those years before
or your family.
So you’re so reliant on that support.
So there is no work we do
or assignment we might have
that isn’t really just giving back to Jehovah
a little bit of what he has given us.
Looking back, the only thing that I regret
is not putting my application in even sooner.
But there’s nothing that I regret
about having put it in
and the life that Jehovah
has allowed me to enjoy since then.
Working with a team of brothers and sisters,
what a massive privilege!
You’re not in the world.
You’re not in Satan’s system.
You’re just surrounded by characters
who have the same goal.
It’s not easy living in this system,
but I think when we’re in full-time service,
when we’re giving of ourselves to Jehovah
in that way,
he just gives back so much more.
It just becomes
a great way to live your life.
You’re serving Jehovah,
you’re with a great group of people,
and you’re having a great time.
And who wouldn’t want a piece of that?
We love our dear brothers and sisters
who have willingly extended themselves
in theocratic service.
And we know that you do too.
We thank all of you for the spirit you show
in helping maintain
your local places of pure worship.
We commend all of you
who, like David, Jasmine,
Jonathan, and Carolina,
made the decision as a youth
to volunteer for Jehovah’s service.
We are confident the young ones
will set similar goals
and experience the unique joy
that working with Jehovah brings.
We also want to thank the thousands
of special full-time servants and volunteers
who work behind the scenes
on construction projects around the world.
Your work is appreciated
and worthy of much commendation.
Your tireless efforts to construct, remodel,
and maintain places of pure worship
benefit all of us.
Your work contributes
to the advancement of Kingdom interests.
And above all, it warms the heart
of our heavenly Father, Jehovah.